1)java is a application or programming language?
Ans:It is an application and also it is a computing platform for application development. Java is a high level
language,object-0riented language.Java applications are typically compiled to byte code that run on any java
virtual machine(JVM).

*computing platform is an environment in which a piece of software is executed.
*object-oriented  programming is a method used for desining a program using classes and objects 

2)Features of java?
Ans:1)Simple:It is easy to learn and its syntax is simple(java syntax is based on C++,...)

    2)Object-oriented:-basic concepts of oops are:1)Inheritance 2)Polymorphism 3)Abstraction 4)Encapsulation
    *In Inheritance we can create new classes that are build upon existing classes
    *In Polymorphism we can perform a single action in different ways
    *Abstraction is process of hiding the implementation details and showing only functionality to the user
    *Encapsulation is a process of wrapping code and data together into a single unit
    *It is the collection of objects and it has state and its behaviour 

   3)Portable:We can carry .class file in any OS

   4)Platform independent:Java code can be executed on multiple platforms 
     eg:-windows,linux,mac....

   5)Secure:It doesnot contain explicit pointer(A pointer is just the address of some location in memory)
    java programs run inside a JVM 

   6)Robust:It uses strong memory management 
 
   7)Architecuture-neutral:In either 32-bit/64-bit it occupies 4bytes of memory but not it as like in c/c++

   8)High-performance:Java is an interpreted language that is slower than compiled languages eg:c;c++,...

   9)Multi-threaded:Multiple task can be performed at the same time without consuming more memory

  10)Distributed:Multiple users can access the benefit program from any machine on the internet

  11)Dynamic:Depending on requirement the classes are loaded and unloaded from the memory

  12)Garbage collection:Which is implicitly used by the JVM (*it makes java efficient because GC removes 
  the unrefrenced objects(run time used memory) from heap memory

3)Why java is platform independent?
Ans:A sorce code which is converted into byte code with the help of compiler which is converted into HLL into LLL
  as a .class file this can executed on multiple platforms eg:mac,linux,windows,... 

4)Explain JDK,JRE,JVM ?
Ans:JDK:Java development kit it is a development environment for building applications,applets,and components 
  using the java programming language 
  JRE:Java runtime environment and it is entirely responsible for code execution.A JRE acts as a kind of 
  translator and facilitator between java program and the OS
  JVM:It is known as the interpreter or the core of java programming language because it executes java programming

5)What is JIT?
Ans:It optimizes the performance of the java application at compile or runtime

6)If we write "static public void" instead of "public static void" what will happens?
Ans:It will execute correctly but public static is the standard way
 Public:It is a access specifier that means it will be accessible by everyone 
 Static:It is a keyword which identifies the class related thing.this means the given method or variable is
 not instance related but class related
 Void:It is used to define the return type of the method
 Main:It is the name of the method.This method name is searched by JVM as a starting point for an application
 String[]args:It is the parameter to the main method. We can keep any name instead of args

7)What is class in java?
Ans:A class is a group of objects which have common properties.It is a blueprint from which objects are created

8)What is object in java?
Ans:The ability of state and behaviour
    It has three characterstics
    1)State 
    2)Behaviour
    3)Identity

9)What are the diffrent types of operators are there in java?
Ans:operator is a symbol that is used to perform operations.eg:+,*,/,-,....
    Types of operators
    1)Unary operator
    2)Arithmetic operator
    3)Shift operator
    4)Relational operator
    5)Bitwise operator
    6)Logical operator
    7)Ternary operator
    8)Assignment operator

10)Explain about Pre-increment and post-increment?
Ans:Before assigning the value to the variable(++i),the value is incremented by one
    After assigning the value to the variable(i++),the value is incremented by one

11)What are flow control statements?
Ans:Java compiler executes the code from top to bottom.The statements in the code 
    are executed according to the order in which they appear.however java provides statements that can be used 
    to control the flow statement
    It provides three types of control flow statements 
    1)Decision Making statements 
    2)Loop statements
    3)Jump statements

12)What is default value of local variable?
Ans:Initially(default) it contains null value. We must assign a value before we use a local variable

13)What are the access specifiers in java?
Ans:The access modifiers in java specifies the accessibility or scope of a field,method,constructor or class.
    we can change the access level of fields,constructors,methods,and class by applying the access modifier on it
    There are four types of access modifiers:
     1)Private
     2)Default
     3)Protected
     4)public

14)What is structure to write a method?
Ans:{
    public static void main(String[] args)
    {
     int a=5;//for example 
     int b=6;
     int c=a+b;
     System.out.println(c)
     }
     }

15)What are the restrictions that are applied to static methods?
Ans:A static method can only access static variables it cannot access instance variables.
    since static method which refer to the class the syntax to call or refer to a static method is:class name

    